HCIDOCS-652: HCIDOCS-356 Updates (#88668)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/bmo-performing-a-live-update-to-the-hostfirmwaresettings-resource.adoc

// This is included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/ipi/ipi-install-post-installation-configuration.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="bmo-performing-a-live-update-to-the-hostfirmwaresettings-resource_{context}"]
= Performing a live update to the HostFirmwareSettings resource

You can perform a live update to the `HostFirmareSettings` resource after it has begun running workloads. Live updates do not detach the host from Ironic and reattach it after performing the update. To perform a live update to `HostFirmwareSettings`, take the following actions:

* Edit or patch the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource.
* Cordon and drain the node.
* Power off the host for 5 minutes.
* Power on the host.

> * Uncordon the node so it can rejoin the cluster.

Reviewer: Similar comment as the previous procedure

.Procedure

. Update the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch hostfirmwaresettings <hostname> --type merge -p \ <1>
    '{"spec": {"settings": {"<name>": "<value>"}}}' <2>
----
<1> Replace `<hostname>` with the name of the host.
<2> Replace `<name>` with the name of the setting. Replace `<value>` with the value of the setting. You can set multiple name/value pairs.
+
[NOTE]
====
Get the `FirmwareSchema` resource to determine which settings the hardware supports and what settings and values you can update. You cannot update read-only values and you cannot update the `FirmwareSchema` resource. You can also use `oc edit <hostname> hostfirmwaresettings -n openshift-machine-api` to update the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource.
====

. Cordon and drain the node by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc drain <node_name> --force <1>
----
<1> Replace `<node_name>` with the name of the node.

. Power off the host for a period of 5 minutes by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch bmh <hostname> --type merge -p '{"spec": {"online": false}}'
----
+

> This step ensures that daemonsets or controllers can mark any infrastructure pods that might be running on the host as offline. Other hosts will handle incoming requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step ensures that daemonsets or controllers can mark any infrastructure pods that might be running on the host as offline while rest of the hosts handle incoming requests.
```

//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/ipi/ipi-install-post-installation-configuration.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="bmo-performing-a-live-update-to-the-hostfirmwaresettings-resource_{context}"]
= Performing a live update to the HostFirmwareSettings resource

You can perform a live update to the `HostFirmareSettings` resource after it has begun running workloads. Live updates do not detach the host from Ironic and reattach it after performing the update. To perform a live update to `HostFirmwareSettings`, take the following actions:

> * Update the resource.

Reviewer 2: Edit or patch the HostFirmwareSettings Custom Resource
Drain the host.
Power off the host for approximately 5 minutes
Power the host back on
Once the operation is successful, uncordon the host so it can re-join the cluster

You can perform a live update to the `HostFirmareSettings` resource after it has begun running workloads. Live updates do not detach the host from Ironic and reattach it after performing the update. To perform a live update to `HostFirmwareSettings`, take the following actions:

* Edit or patch the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource.
* Cordon and drain the node.
* Shut down the host for 5 minutes.

> * Reboot the host.

Reviewer 2: Power on the host

----
<1> Replace `<hostname>` with the name of the host.
<2> Replace `<name>` with the name of the setting. Replace `<value>` with the value of the setting. You can set multiple name/value pairs.
+
[NOTE]
====

> Get the `FirmwareSchema` resource to determine which settings the hardware supports. You can also use `oc edit <hostname> hostfirmwaresettings -n openshift-machine-api` to update the resource.

Reviewer 2: suggestion: Get the `FirmwareSchema` resource to determine which settings the hardware supports and what are the allowable values. FirmwareSchema is an auto-generated resource and is not user-updatable.

+
[NOTE]
====

> Get the `FirmwareSchema` resource to determine which settings the hardware supports and what settings and values you can update. You cannot update read-only values and you cannot update the `FirmwareSchema` resource. You can also use `oc edit <hostname> hostfirmwaresettings -n openshift-machine-api` to update the resource.

Reviewer 2: Get the `FirmwareSchema` resource to determine which settings the hardware supports and what settings and values you can update. You cannot update read-only values and you cannot update the `FirmwareSchema` resource. You can also use `oc edit <hostname> hostfirmwaresettings -n openshift-machine-api` to update the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource. (added the resource name in the last part to clarify it's not FirmwareSchema we just said user cannot update)

====

> . Cordon the node by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: Cordon and drain the node by running the following command:

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc cordon <node_name> <1>

Reviewer 2: $ oc drain <node_name> <1> --force
(drain is superset of cordon)

----

> <1> Replace `<node_name>` with the name of the node. The Bare Metal Operator (BMO) updates the `operationalStatus` parameter to `servicing`.

Reviewer 2: <1> Replace `<node_name>` with the name of the node. The Bare Metal Operator (BMO) updates the `Operational Status` of the associated `BareMetalHost` parameter to `servicing`.
(clarifying Operational Status is a BMH property not node property)

. Power off the host for a period of 5 minutes by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch bmh <hostname> --type merge -p '{"spec": {"online": false}}'
----
+
This step ensures that daemonsets or controllers can mark any infrastructure pods that might be running on the host as offline. Other hosts will handle incoming requests.

> . After 5 minutes, reboot the host by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: After 5 minutes, power on the host by running the following command:

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch bmh <hostname> --type merge -p '{"spec": {"online": true}}'
----
+

> During reboot, the servicing operation commences and the BMO sets the `operationalStatus` parameter to `servicing`. The BMO updates the `operationalStatus` parameter to `OK` after updating the resource. If an error occurs, the BMO updates the `operationalStatus` parameter to `error` and retries the operation.

Reviewer 2: During boot 
(similar to my earlier comment - technically we're not rebooting since the node is powered off)
